# Intro to OpenAPI with Apicurio

In this lab we will look at managing an OpenAPI spec using Apicurio.

1. If this is your first time using APIcurio or the web view is saying refused to connect, please navigate to https://studio.apicur.io/dashboard and sign in using one of the provided methods.
2. Refresh the Dashboard
4. Select APIs on the left and select `Create New API` in the sub menu
5. Enter a name and description for the new API
6. Select `Blank API` for the template and click `Create API`
7. This will take you to the landing page for your new API, at this point we are going to click `Edit API`
8. Update the Contact and License info in the Design tab
9. Add a default Tag Definition of todo
10. Select the `add a server` option under the Servers section. Set the Server URL to be localhost:8080
11. Click on the `+` button next to `Data Types` to add a new data type to the API
12. Enter `Todo` for the Name, and for the JSON example paste the following:

        {
            "name": "Todo item",
            "description": "Description of item",
            "date": "2018-05-06T18:25:43.511Z",
            "completed": true
        }
13. Under the `Choose to create a REST Resource` section, select the `REST Resource` option and click `Save`
14. Note that two paths have been automatically generated for the new Todo data type
15. Select the Todo data type
16. Under `Properties` in the Design tab, select the `+` button
17. Add a new property for an id by typing `id` in the Name field
18. Under the `Enter Type Information` section, set the Property to be `Not Required` and of type `String`, click `save`
19. Under the `/todos` path, select the GET operation, click the `+` icon under the Query Parameters section
20. The name of the parameter should be set to `completed`, this parameter should not be required and is of type `Boolean`
21. Click save, note that the new parameter has been added in the design tab
22. Under the `Responses` section, select the `+` button to add a new response
23. Select `404 Not Found` from the drop down menu and click `Add`
24. Edit the Description of the new response to `Todo not found`
25. To view the generated OpenAPI spec source code, click `TODO` in the top left next to the green circle icon, this
takes you to the root of your API
26. Select the `Source` tab
27. At any time if you would like to view the autogenerated redoc Documentation, click `Live Documentation` in the top
right
